Neighbourhood name: Dunbar-Southlands
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunbar%E2%80%93Southlands
Description: Dunbar–Southlands is a neighbourhood situated on the western side of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, that stretches north from the Fraser River and covers most of the land between the mouth of the Fraser and English Bay.
This neighbourhood consists of many commercial and residential areas that mostly consists of single-family dwellings. It also contains parts of the Mackenzie Heights enclave, and is the home territory of the Musqueam Indian Band.
History: Archaeological findings shows that native First Nations have inhabited the area was early as 400 B.C. The Fraser provided large amounts of hunting and fishing areas for Salish Indians who settled at three locations. As recently as 15,000 years ago, it was buried under a sheet of glacial ice.
In 1908, the land in the Dunbar area was owned by the Canadian Pacific Railway and was part of the now defunct, Municipality of Point Grey. At that time, the land was unstable for development. The first non-native settlers purchased a lot on 22nd Avenue.
By 1927, the area was served by three streetcar routes. Dunbar–Southlands became a part of Vancouver in 1929 when the Municipality of Point Grey merged with the City of Vancouver.
The first major land development in Dunbar–Southlands took place in the mid-1920s with some of the homes that were built during this period still stand to this day. Due to West Point Grey's 1922 zoning by-laws ordered that these early homes be situated on the back of their lots, those that remain, stand out as neighbourhood landmarks.

Neighbourhood name: Marpole
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marpole
Description: Marpole, originally a Musqueam village named c̓əsnaʔəm, is a mostly residential neighbourhood of 23,832 in 2011, located on the southern edge of the city of Vancouver, British Columbia, immediately northeast of Vancouver International Airport, and is approximately bordered by Angus Drive to the west, 57th Avenue to the north, Ontario Street to the east and the Fraser River to the south. It has undergone many changes in the 20th century, with the influx of traffic and development associated with the construction of the Oak Street Bridge (which leads to Highway 99 leading to the southern suburbs) and the Arthur Laing Bridge (which leads to Vancouver International Airport).
History: Marpole is one of Vancouver's oldest communities. The Great Marpole Midden, an ancient Musqueam village and burial site, one of North America's largest village sites and "one of the largest pre-contact middens on the Pacific coast of Canada", has been a National Historic Site since 1933. According to the Musqueam, it dates back at least 4,000 years.
A long-house dated to the year 5 AD was located near modern Marine Drive, in South Vancouver, belonging to the Ancient Marpole First Nation.
Non-natives began to inhabit the area in the 1860s, calling it Eburne Station. The small town was separated from the city by miles of forest.
At the turn of the 20th century, the Vancouver Lulu Island Railway of the British Columbia Electric Railway interurban train was constructed,[clarification needed] which triggered the development of sawmills, shingle mills, and gravel companies in the region. The area was renamed after Richard Marpole in 1916, and by the time it joined Vancouver in 1929, it had become one of the area's major industrial centres.
The Oak Street Bridge was completed in 1957 and was partly responsible for a downturn in business around the Marine and Hudson area, as traffic shifted to the east. The 1975 opening of the Arthur Laing Bridge helped shift the business area back to the west, along Granville Street.

Neighbourhood name: Renfrew-Collingwood
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Renfrew%E2%80%93Collingwood
Description: Renfrew–Collingwood is a large neighbourhood that lies on the eastern side of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on its boundary with Burnaby and encompassing an area that was one of the earlier developed regions of the city. It is a diverse area that includes a substantial business community in several areas, as well as some of the fastest-growing residential sectors of Vancouver. In 2011, the neighbourhood had a population of 50,500, 38.4% of whom claim Chinese as their first language.
History: In 1861, Colonel Richard Moody made the first modern attempt to break through the thick forests that covered the areas now known as Renfrew–Collingwood, building a military trail on the route of an ancient First Nations trail that led from New Westminster to English Bay. He then claimed 1.14 km² of land in the heart of the area, where the Collingwood commercial area now exists. The first settler in the area was George Wales, who moved to the area in 1878 and settled on an area bordered by Wales Street, Kingsway and East 45th Avenue.
By 1891, the interurban railway tram running along Vanness Avenue had opened the area to new residents, and a thriving community started near the junction of Vanness and Joyce Street. The name Collingwood was likely selected by some former residents of Collingwood, Ontario. However, another possibility is that the Collingwood name derives from Royal Navy Admiral Cuthbert Collingwood, for whom Collingwood Channel in Howe Sound is named. In 1913, a small town was growing quickly along Joyce Street. To the north, the Renfrew district—formerly the southern part of an area known as the Hastings townsite—began to see population arrive in the 1920s.
Over the years, the two areas have grown together, with extensive commercial development along Kingsway, Grandview Highway and Boundary Road and growing numbers of condominiums and multi-family residential developments sprouting up around the area. Construction of the two SkyTrain rapid transit lines through the area (the original Expo Line in 1986 and the more recent Millennium Line to the north) has brought even more interest in development.
The area had its beginnings and owes its name to a station on the now-defunct Central Park Line of the British Columbia Electric Railway, the route of which is now paralleled by the Skytrain line, the Joyce station of which is located on Joyce Street a few blocks north of Kingsway.

Neighbourhood name: Sunset
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunset,_Vancouver
Description: Sunset is one of the most ethnically diverse neighbourhood in Vancouver, British Columbia. It is located in the south-east quadrant of the city. Surrounding the multicultural Fraser Street district, Sunset is bordered by both the Marpole and Oakridge neighbourhoods to the west, and the Victoria-Fraserview neighbourhood to the east.
History: Development of the Sunset neighbourhood first took place in the 1860s. At the time, the area was part of the District of South Vancouver and consisted mostly of farmland alongside a cluster of homes. Extensive logging took place along the south slope of Vancouver during the late 19th into early 20th century, prompting communities such as Sunset to rapidly industrialize.
In 1929, the District of South Vancouver amalgamated with the City of Vancouver, thus incorporating Sunset as a part of the city. The neighbourhood remained quite rural until the 1940s, when a large wave immigrants from central and eastern Europe moved into the area. Many new German immigrants established churches, most of which remain to this day.
Beginning in the 1950s, into the 1960s and 1970s, another large wave of immigrants moved into Sunset. Primarily Sikhs from the Punjab region of South Asia, the new immigrants founded the Punjabi Market (Little India) on Main Street and presided over the last final large scale development in the neighbourhood with the construction of hundreds of Vancouver Specials. As most development in the area ceased in the 1980s, these homes continue to be a mainstay across southeast Vancouver.
Today, the neighbourhood is among the most ethnically diverse across Metro Vancouver and continues the serve as one of several centres of the South Asian community in Vancouver.
The Sunset neighborhood was dominated by bungalow homes constructed in the 1960s and 1970s; however, in the last 10 years, many of these smaller houses have been torn down and have been replaced by larger multi-level residences.

Neighbourhood name: Mount Pleasant
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mount_Pleasant,_Vancouver
Description: Mount Pleasant is a neighbourhood in the city of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, stretching from Cambie Street to Clark Drive and from Great Northern Way and 2nd, to 16th and Kingsway. The neighbourhood, once characterized as working-class, has undergone a process of gentrification since the early 1990s, including the area around the Main Street and Broadway intersection.
The neighbourhood is served by the Canada Line, an extension of SkyTrain from Downtown Vancouver to Vancouver International Airport.
Mount Pleasant is known as one of the more up and coming neighbourhoods, especially in the communities surrounding Vancouver's downtown peninsula. Many first-time homeowners and young professionals, as well as a growing number of families, call Mount Pleasant home. It is also home to a number of artists and writers, including CBC personalities Ian Hanomansing and Tod Maffin, The Tyee editor David Beers and documentary filmmaker Peter W. Klein.
History: Mount Pleasant owes much of its origins to a former stream and, because of it, developed much of its unique and rich character. The stream attracted a number of breweries from 1888 to 1912, hence it became known as Brewery Creek. In 1890, the first street cars arrived; as far south as 1st and Main. Brewery Creek, in conjunction with the connecting routes of Main and Kingsway, became the centre of industry and commercialism for the district of Mt. Pleasant. By 1897, there was a substantial population growth centred on Broadway and Main Street. The ability to commute to the City Centre and the industries of Brewery Creek and False Creek provided the draw for many working families that now populated the area below Broadway. In a sense, Mount Pleasant can be called Vancouver's "first suburb".
The area high above False Creek was named "Mount Pleasant" in 1888, after the Irish birthplace of Jane Fortune Kemp the wife of Henry Valentine Edmonds. Edmonds, clerk of the municipal council in New Westminster, was the original owner of much of Mount Pleasant.

Neighbourhood name: Downtown
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Downtown_Vancouver
Description: Downtown Vancouver is the central business district and the city centre neighbourhood of Vancouver, Canada, on the northwestern shore of the Burrard Peninsula in the Lower Mainland region of British Columbia. It occupies most of the north shore of the False Creek inlet, which cuts into the Burrard Peninsula creating the Downtown Peninsula, where the West End neighbourhood and Stanley Park are also located.
Along with West End, Stanley Park and the nearby Downtown Eastside, Downtown makes up Central Vancouver, one of the city's three main areas (the others being East Side and West Side).
With a disproportionately high amount of residential towers for a central business district in a geographically constrained area, Downtown Vancouver is one of the densest areas in the country.

Neighbourhood name: West Point Grey
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_Point_Grey
Description: West Point Grey is a neighbourhood in the northwest of the city of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. It is on Point Grey and bordered by 16th Avenue to the south, Alma Street to the east, English Bay to the north, and Blanca Street to the west. Notable beaches within West Point Grey include Spanish Banks, Locarno and Jericho. Immediately to the south is Pacific Spirit Regional Park and to the east is Kitsilano.
The main commercial area with shops and restaurants is along West 10th Avenue between Tolmie Street and Discovery Street. North of West 4th Avenue, the area slopes steeply downhill where it meets English Bay at Locarno Beach and the Spanish Banks.

Neighbourhood name: Victoria-Fraserview
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Victoria-Fraserview
Description: Victoria–Fraserview is a neighbourhood in the City of Vancouver, set on the south slope of the rise that runs north from the Fraser River and encompassing a large area of residential and commercial development. Surrounding the culturally eclectic Victoria Drive corridor, Victoria–Fraserview is an ethnically diverse area that was one of the earliest areas of settlement in the region.
History: Musqueam First Nations tradition is indicating that the flats along the Fraser River in the southwestern portion of Victoria–Fraserview was the site of an important village and a number of east–west trails leading towards settlements in what is now New Westminster. The first European settlers arrived in the 1860s, and a wagon road constructed in 1875 to the west of Knight Street on what is now Fraser Street opened the vast acres of virgin forest to homesteaders. As part of the Municipality of South Vancouver, Victoria–Fraserview began to receive more attention from farmers who cleared land in the region. It became part of the city of Vancouver in 1929.
Much of the existing development in the neighbourhood came in the 1940s, when land was needed for returning veterans of World War II. 1,100 new homes were built in the area (and its neighbour to the west, Sunset) for these veterans, on land expropriated by the Canadian Mortgage and Housing Corporation despite protestations of neighbours.
In the early days of settlement, the floodplain along the Fraser River was popular with small vegetable farmers, but later was taken over by industrial development along the working river. Since the 1980s, industrial land has slowly transformed to residential properties.

Neighbourhood name: Kensington-Cedar Cottage
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kensington-Cedar_Cottage
Description: Kensington–Cedar Cottage is one of the most ethnically diverse neighbourhoods in east Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The neighbourhood is approximately 7.23 square kilometres (2.79 sq mi) in area.
History: The area was first settled in 1888 when Arthur Wilson bought a plot of land and began the Cedar Cottage Nursery.
Trout Lake
John Hendry Park, named after the lumber industrialist John Hendry who owned the land, is located in the north-east of Kensington–Cedar Cottage. In the centre of the park is Trout Lake, once the water source for the Hastings Sawmill. The park also houses an ice rink, that was built for the 2010 Winter Olympics, and Trout Lake Community Centre.
Like most of East Vancouver, Kensington–Cedar Cottage used to be predominantly working class but rising house prices have made the area increasingly popular with young professionals and families who can no longer afford houses in areas such as the west side.

Neighbourhood name: Riley Park
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riley_Park
Description: Riley Park is an urban park in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. It is located in the neighbourhood of Hillhurst, bounded by 8th Ave. NW, 10th St. NW, 5th Ave. NW and 12th St. NW. The park is host to Calgary's cricket leagues, and the Calgary Concert Band holds free concerts in the park during summer. Amenities include a wading pool and playground.
History: The park was once part of a 146,000 hectare parcel of land known as Cochrane Ranch. The area was homesteaded between 1888 and 1909 by the Riley family, and willed to the City of Calgary following the death of the family's patriarch, Ezra Riley.[1] The 20 acres parcel that is now Riley Park was donated to the city in 1910.

Neighbourhood name: Grandview-Woodland
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grandview%E2%80%93Woodland
Description: Grandview–Woodland, also commonly known as Grandview–Woodlands, is a neighbourhood in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada to the east of the downtown area, stretching south from the shores of Burrard Inlet and encompassing portions of the popular Commercial Drive area. It is a mature neighbourhood in Vancouver that is a vibrant mixture of commercial, industrial, single-family and multi-family residential with a rich ethnic history and features.
A central part of the Vancouver area, Grandview–Woodland runs from the south shore of busy Burrard Inlet south to Broadway, one of the city's major east–west roads. The western border of the neighbourhood is Clark Drive, the eastern Nanaimo Street. It is a busy area for transportation, with Hastings Street and First Avenue both cutting through the neighbourhood, while Victoria Drive and Commercial Drive both run north–south through the area.
Much of the neighbourhood is built on the rise that stretches east–west through the eastern portion of Vancouver, making for views across the city proper and the inlet.
History: Local First Nations members have been aware of the Grandview–Woodland area for many years, and referred to the area along Burrard Inlet by the word for cedar trees in their language. A small cove created by a stream running into the inlet became a focal point for early development; the first building was a brewery, followed by sawmills using the forests of the area. The land along Burrard Inlet was valued by speculators after the Gold Rush, and was the location of the Canadian Pacific Railway when it was built in the 1880s. Around that time, the sawmill owners clearcut the entire Grandview–Woodland area, and the construction of the Interurban train line to New Westminster, British Columbia in 1891 spurred the construction of a new community in the area. One legend indicates that the name Grand View was first expressed on a sign hung by a homeowner next to the Interurban stop near the Commercial Drive-1st Avenue intersection.
In 1906, construction started to boom, with homes being built through the neighbourhood, and the railway influencing industrial development along the waterfront. Park Drive became a major commercial route that eventually became Commercial Drive, and people of many ethnic backgrounds made the neighbourhood their home over the years.
Grandview Woodland has been experiencing gentrification since around 2008 as a result of high real estate prices in Vancouver and the heightened popularity of inner-city living.

Neighbourhood name: Arbutus Ridge
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arbutus_Ridge
Description: Arbutus Ridge is an affluent residential neighbourhood in Vancouver's West Side. It is bordered by 16th Avenue in the north, 41st Avenue in the south, Mackenzie Street in the west, and East Boulevard in the east. The neighbourhood is characterized by larger than average lot sizes, with stately homes on tree-lined streets.
St. Mary's Kerrisdale church
One of the catalysts for growth in the neighbourhood was the existence of the Vancouver-Steveston Interurban route of the British Columbia Electric Railway, which ran between 1905 and 1958. The route once followed by the interurban is now part of the Arbutus Greenway.
History: In 1888, the Province granted 2,100 hectares (5,289 acres) of land to the Canadian Pacific Railway, including a large portion of what is now Arbutus Ridge. The land consisted of uplands that surrounded a low-lying marsh area called Asthma Flats. The upland areas were developed first, between 1912 and the 1930s. In the 1940s and 1950s, the marsh was filled in with sand brought in from False Creek to allow the development of houses and shops.

Neighbourhood name: Killarney
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killarney,_Vancouver
Description: Killarney is a neighbourhood in East Vancouver, British Columbia with a population of over 28,000 in 2011 and lies in the far southeast corner of the city. It is on the south slope of the ridge that rises above the Fraser River, and contains a collection of single-family residences with a few multi-family homes as well as the townhouses and high-rises of the Fraserlands development along the river.
History: The Killarney area was one of the last portions of Vancouver to be developed, and was mostly second-growth forest until after World War II. Farms had been cut out of the forest since 1868, when William Rowling, a surveyor in the British military, was given a land grant that eventually consisted of much of southern Killarney, including all of its riverfront land. George Wales was the first to settle in northern Killarney in 1878, and eventually development began to move from the more populated areas to the west as the interurban streetcar line was constructed north of Kingsway.
After World War II, development accelerated with a growing need for housing, and the street grid moved south towards Southeast Marine Drive. In the 1970s, Champlain Heights was developed as a comprehensive residential development.
As a later developing neighbourhood, Killarney does not have the same level of heritage properties as other areas in Vancouver, though it does boast a number of examples of 1920s farmhouses and is well known for long-standing trees and natural heritage.
In the 1990s, the land along the Fraser River was a hotbed of development. Known as the Fraserlands, this area now boasts hundreds of townhome units and a number of residential highrise buildings in a new high density neighbourhood called the River District, with more presently under construction. The city of Vancouver has recently begun consultations on the possible development of a former log yard at the eastern end of the Fraserlands, with the intention of developing it into a sustainable community of its own.

Neighbourhood name: Oakridge
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oakridge,_Vancouver
Description: Oakridge is a neighbourhood in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, with a multicultural residential and commercial area. It had a population of 13,030 in 2016, of which approximately 50 percent have Chinese as their mother tongue.
History: The Oakridge area was one of the last parts of Vancouver to be left in its natural state, with the exception of a golf course built near West 49th and Cambie in 1926 and some institutional construction including hospitals and boarding schools prior to World War II.
It was after the war that development began to expand into the wooded areas of Oakridge. The city's Jewish community moved south along Oak Street in the post-war years (the Jewish Community Centre was built at the intersection of West 41st Avenue and Oak), and the Canadian Pacific Railway opened its lands in the area to development that erupted in the 1950s. Much of the area was built with single-family homes, and the Oakridge Centre shopping mall, constructed in 1959 at West 41st Avenue and Cambie Street, provided a centrepoint for the residential boom.
Because of its later development, Oakridge is perhaps the least historic part of Vancouver. It was dominated by bungalow homes constructed in the 1950s and 1960s; however, in the last 10 years, many of these smaller houses have been torn down and have been replaced by larger multi-level residences.
A massive redevelopment of Oakridge Centre, which began in 2019, is currently ongoing to turn the suburban mall into a high-density, transit-oriented neighbourhood with multiple high-rises, the tallest in the city outside of the downtown peninsula, expected completion in 2027. It is deemed to become a secondary business and commercial centre to Downtown Vancouver and the Broadway corridor.

Neighbourhood name: Hastings-Sunrise
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hastings-Sunrise
Description: Hastings–Sunrise is a neighbourhood located in the northeastern corner of the city of Vancouver, British Columbia. One of Vancouver's oldest neighbourhoods, Hastings–Sunrise is primarily residential, with a dense strip of shops and services along East Hastings Street and in pockets along Nanaimo Street, Broadway, Boundary Road and Renfrew Street. The residences are mostly single family detached dwellings, with some multi-family buildings. There is substantial parkland, and the area north of Hastings is partially zoned for light industrial.
History: The name "Hastings" is a common and historical one in Vancouver for roads, businesses and even a townsite. It is commonly thought to have been derived from the Battle of Hastings from the Norman conquest of England in 1066. In fact, it was named in the mid 19th century to commemorate the visit of the Commander-in-Chief of the Pacific Navy Rear Admiral George Fowler Hastings of the Royal Navy from 1866–1869.[1]
Hastings Townsite
Hastings–Sunrise is the northern half of a block of land ear-marked by the Province of British Columbia in the mid-19th century as the future location for a harbour city to complement New Westminster, the town on the Fraser River which was then (in 1863) BC's capital and the terminus city for Western Canada. While Gastown became the shipping destination for the BC coast, New Brighton, as the area was then called, became a popular recreational destination for 19th century New Westminster residents.
The northern half was re-christened Hastings (officially 'The Hastings Townsite') in 1869 in honour of a visit by Admiral Hastings. The first road, hotel, post office, telephone, real estate transaction, and subdivision in what is now Vancouver were all built at Hastings Townsite. The area's first ferry service between Burrard Inlet and Victoria, also operated from here. The area didn't become part of the City of Vancouver until 1911.

Neighbourhood name: Kitsilano
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kitsilano
Description: Kitsilano (/kɪtsəˈlænoʊ/) is a neighbourhood located in the city of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Kitsilano is named after Squamish chief August Jack Khatsahlano, and the neighbourhood is located in Vancouver's West Side along the south shore of English Bay, between the neighbourhoods of West Point Grey and Fairview. The area is mostly residential with two main commercial areas, West 4th Avenue and West Broadway, known for their retail stores, restaurants and organic food markets.
History: Pre-colonial history
The area has been home to the Squamish people for thousands of years, sharing the territory with the Musqueam and the Tsleil-Waututh Peoples.[3] All three Nations moved throughout their shared traditional territory, using the resources it provided for fishing, hunting, trapping and gathering.
Post-colonial history
The name 'Kitsilano' is derived from X̱ats'alanexw, the Squamish name of chief August Jack Khatsahlano.[4][5]
In 1911, an amendment to the Indian Act by the federal government to legalize the unsettling of reserves stated that "an Indian reserve which adjoins or is situated wholly or partly within an incorporated town or city having a population of [more] than eight thousand", could at the recommendation of the Superintendent General be removed without their consent if it was "having regard to the interest of the public" without the need for consent from the reserve's residents.
Subsequently, both provincial and federal governments began the "unsettling of reserves" process, which was the "emptying" of the reserves that "be[came] a source of nuisance and an impediment to progress", or, in other words, the government unsettled reserves for growing cities and potential business ventures; and by the end of 1911[contradictory] the reserve was sold to the Government of British Columbia. At this time in Canadian history, the federal government had already isolated the Indigenous population on to morsels of reserve lands, only to further deprive Indigenous peoples of what the government first thought was negligible land.[6]: 3–10 
The Squamish Nation formally surrendered the majority of reserve to the federal government in 1946.[contradictory] Part of the expropriated land was used by the Canadian Pacific Railway who pursued selling the land they had deed to in the 1980s despite the original agreement with the Squamish Nation that they should regain control of the land. This went to court, and in August 2002 the BC Court of Appeals upheld a lower court's ruling in favour of the Squamish.[7] This Indian reserve land is at the foot of the Burrard Street Bridge, called Senakw (commonly spelled Snauq historically) in the Squamish language, and sənaʔqʷ in the Musqueam people's hən'q'əmin'əm' language, where August Jack Khatsahlano lived.
The forced relocation of the Musqueam Nation by the Canadian government resulted in a Musqueam Reserve created on the north arm of the Fraser River.[6]: 3–10  The Squamish Nation was forcibly relocated to reserves on the north shore of Burrard Inlet, currently the cities North Vancouver and West Vancouver, as well as the False Creek Indian Reserve No. 6.[6]: 3–10 
False Creek Indian Reserve No. 6
The False Creek Indian Reserve No. 6, also known as the Kitsilano Indian Reserve, is an Indian Reserve developed by the colonial government in 1869. The reserve is located on the former site of a Squamish village, known as "sən’a?qw" in hən’q’emin’əm’, the language of the Musqueam people, and as "Sen’ákw" in Sḵwx̱wú7mesh sníchim, the language of the Squamish people. Inside the reserve there was a large longhouse that housed families, held potlach ceremonies, and became a central point of trade. The land appealed to its residents and attracted settlers by providing access to natural resources.[6]: 3–10  It served as an important fishing area where inhabitants could set up tidal weirs of vine maple fencing and nettle fibre nets to catch fish.[8] Additionally, the Squamish people cultivated an orchard as well as cherry trees on this land.[6] Between 1869 and 1965, as the development of railway lines drew attention to the reserve, the Burrard Street Bridge and various leases began to occupy the reserve land. The land set aside for the Squamish people was continually appropriated until it was completely sold off. After decades of legal proceedings, the Squamish Nation reclaimed a small amount of the reserve land in 2002.[9][10][11]
Settler history
Kitsilano Sikh temple, 1910
The city's streetcar lines used to have a "loop" at Arbutus & Cornwall, which made "Greer's Beach", as the area first became known after the holdout settler who lived there, easy to get to from the new city, then still mostly contained on the downtown peninsula[citation needed]. With the opening of the Lulu Island Railway interurban line from Granville & Pacific to Richmond via Seventh Avenue and Arbutus Street to Kerrisdale in the 1890s, more of Kitsilano was put within easy range of downtown and housing and commercial areas carved out of the forests and swamp. The lowland area beyond Macdonald, from 4th Avenue to King Edward, was known as Malaria Flats because of its swampy air. Like most of Vancouver, it had only a few decades before been covered in dense West Coast forest.[citation needed]
From the 1890s, the Vancouver Lawn Tennis Club in Granville Park became a trendy club for the local elite, hosting an annual Championship which attracted some nationally successful Canadian players.
Kitsilano was also the site of the second Sikh temple to be built in Canada, a few years after the first opened Golden in 1905.[12] Opened in 1908, the temple served early South Asian settlers who worked at nearby sawmills along false creek at the time.[13]
The area was an inexpensive neighbourhood to live in the 1960s and attracted many from the counterculture from across Canada and the United States and was known as one of the two hotbeds of the hippie culture in the city, the other being Gastown. However, the area became gentrified by 'yuppies' in subsequent decades. Close proximity to downtown Vancouver, walking distance to parks, beaches and popular Granville Island has made the neighbourhood a very desirable community to live. One of the main concert venues in the city in the days of the counterculture was the Soft Rock Cafe (not to be confused with the Hard Rock Cafe), near 4th and Maple, later rebuilt into a modern shopping complex.
One remaining artifact of the 1960s is the Naam Cafe at 4th and Macdonald, providing vegetarian, vegan, and natural foods. The area is also known for having the first of certain kinds of restaurants, such as the California-style Topanga Cafe. Three of the first neighbourhood pub licenses in Vancouver are still located on 4th Avenue - Bimini's at Maple (reopened after a fire in 2007),[14] Darby D. Dawes at Macdonald, and Jerry's Cove—the original name of Jericho—near Alma.
Greenpeace - founded in the home of Dorothy Stowe at 2775 Courtney Ave. in upper Point Grey near Pacific Spirit Regional Park and UBC - originally found a home in Kitsilano in the backroom of a small office on the SE corner of Broadway at Cypress, and shortly after that at 2007 4th Ave. and Maple (now 2009 due to address change), sharing the upstairs office with SPEC. The first offices of the Green Party of British Columbia were originally located in the home of longtime party leader Adriane Carr and her husband Paul George on Trafalgar Street, near 6th, in early 1983, before being moved by the summer of that year to offices near Broadway and Cypress, which also became the first offices of the Green Party of Canada.

Neighbourhood name: Shaughnessy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shaughnessy,_Vancouver
Description: Shaughnessy is an almost-entirely residential neighbourhood in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, spanning about 447 hectares[1] in a relatively central locale. It is bordered by 16th Avenue to the north, 41st Avenue to the south, Oak Street to the east, and East Boulevard to the west. The older section of the neighbourhood, called "First Shaughnessy," is considered more prestigious and is bordered by 16th Avenue to the north, King Edward Avenue to the south, Oak Street to the east, and East Boulevard to the west. In 2016, the population was approximately 8,810.[2] It was named after Thomas Shaughnessy, 1st Baron Shaughnessy, former president of the Canadian Pacific Railway.
The neighbourhood's residents have an average annual household income of $111,566 ($777,184 in Shaughnessy Heights) and the average house price is $2.89 million, the highest in Vancouver.[3][4] It is also the site of many historical homes, especially in First Shaughnessy. Of the neighbourhood's homes 51.5% were built before or during World War II, compared with 20.8% for the city at large.[1] This is largely due to the 1981 First Shaughnessy Official Development Plan by-law, which promotes private property ownership and single-family dwelling, while limiting property subdivision and population density.
History: The neighbourhood was created in 1907 by the Canadian Pacific Railway, the largest real estate developer in Canada. It was meant as an alternative to the West End, which was the traditional home for the budding city's elite.[6] Thanks to aggressive marketing by the railway, highly regulated development, and a stronger degree of exclusiveness, it gradually took the latter's status over the past century. Shaughnessy is known for its elegant tree-lined streets and large properties. In First Shaughnessy, Angus Drive and Osler Street have a tree-lined median in addition to the trees along the edge of the road.

Neighbourhood name: Fairview
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairview,_Vancouver
Description: Fairview is a neighbourhood on the west side of the city of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. It runs from False Creek in the north to 16th Avenue in the south, and from Burrard Street in the west to Cambie Street in the east.
Central Broadway is an important commercial and employment centre focused around Vancouver General Hospital and other health-related institutions, including the BC Cancer Agency, BC Cancer Research Centre, BC Healthy Living Alliance, and the BC Centre for Disease Control. Other shopping areas in the neighbourhood are South Granville Rise, City Square Shopping Centre, and Granville Island.
Some city offices are located on the eastern fringe of Fairview, across Cambie Street from Vancouver City Hall.
History: The Fairview area, like nearly all of what is now the city of Vancouver, was a primeval rain forest rich with wildlife and gigantic timber until the opening of the Moodyville and Hastings Mills on Burrard Inlet in the 1860s and was one of the first areas to be logged. The area was one of the CPR land grants within the city but remained largely undeveloped until the city's expansion outside the Burrard Peninsula with the construction of the city's new electric railway system in the 1890s. Among the city's lines, which included the Cambie and Granville streetcars and the crosstown route along Broadway, a line known as the Fairview Loop ran in both directions from downtown up Main to Broadway to Granville and back into downtown. With that area's ease of access to the city core, commercial and residential development quickly filled out the neighbourhood, which north of Broadway enjoys a fine view of the city core and the North Shore Mountains, hence the name.

Neighbourhood name: Kerrisdale
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kerrisdale
Description: Kerrisdale is a neighbourhood in the city of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
Kerrisdale is a neighbourhood located in Vancouver's west side. It features a mix of newer houses and older bungalows as well as various low and mid-rise rental and condo apartment buildings in its northern section. The neighbourhood is a racial mix of European and East Asian Canadians. It features a shopping district running generally along West 41st Avenue between Larch and Maple Streets and West Boulevard between 37th and 49th Avenues. Although the city officially defines Kerrisdale as being south of 41st Ave (north of 41st is called Arbutus Ridge), the majority of the area's residents consider the area's boundaries to be West 33rd Avenue to the north, Granville Street to the east, West 57th Avenue to the south, and Blenheim Street to the west. The northern part of Marpole is also generally thought of as part of Kerrisdale, thus some refer to the area as Kerrisdale-Marpole. The southwestern part of Kerrisdale is known as Southlands, due to its location in relation to the city. Southlands is known for its horse stables and rural feel and is located on the floodplain of the North Arm of the Fraser River.
History: Kerrisdale gained its name in 1905 when British Columbia Electric Railway manager R.H. Sterling asked Mrs. William McKinnon to name the interurban stop at Wilson Road (today West 41st Avenue). She chose to call it "Kerry's Dale", after the name of her family home, Kerrydale, in Gairloch, Scotland.[1]: 135  Kerrydale means "little seat of the fairies". It was quickly corrupted to Kerrisdale. The area was part of the Municipality of Point Grey, which amalgamated January 1, 1929 with the City of Vancouver and the Municipality of South Vancouver. Many of the streets and avenues surrounding this focal intersection developed around this time, with local landmarks such as Point Grey Secondary School, Ryerson Church, Shannon Mews and the Allen Brown Estate constructed in these formative years.

Neighbourhood name: West End
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/West_End,_Vancouver
Description: The West End is a neighbourhood in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, located between the Coal Harbour neighbourhood and the financial and central business districts of Downtown Vancouver to the east, Stanley Park to the northwest, the English Bay to the west, and Kitsilano to the southwest across the False Creek opening.
The West End is not to be confused with the West Side (which denotes the western half of the non-downtown part of Vancouver city to the south) or West Vancouver ("West Van"), a separate municipality (conversely, and to the confusion of some, "East Van", "the East End", and "the East Side" all denote East Vancouver).
The definition of the "official neighbourhood" of the West End, according to the city, is the area west of Burrard Street, east of Lost Lagoon, and south of West Georgia Street.[2] Historically the term originated and remains used by Vancouverites to refer to everything from Burrard Street to Stanley Park, including the Stanley Park Neighbourhood west of Denman Street and the Coal Harbour Neighbourhood. Coal Harbour Neighbourhood is officially designated as west of Burrard and to the north of West Georgia, although the newly built areas between West Pender Street and the waterfront are expressly "Coal Harbour" and not considered part of the West End.
History: Like all of Vancouver, the West End was originally a forested wilderness. The area was purchased in 1862 by John Morton, Samuel Brighouse, and William Hailstone, three men known as the "Three Greenhorn Englishmen", or just the "Three Greenhorns", a nickname they earned from others who thought they were buying a massive plot of wild land at an inflated price.[3] The men had plans to establish a brickworks on the shore of Coal Harbour, and their land claim was originally staked with the hopeful intent of mining for porcelain clays, but the grade of clay was not fine enough for that use. When those plans failed (a lack of transportation being a key factor) they sold a good portion of the area, by then known as the Brickmaker's Claim, to Victoria investors who in turn tried to promote its development as New Liverpool. The only thing that happened with that scheme was a subdivision plan registered with the Land Titles office in New Westminster. Another name used for the property was the Brighouse Estate (Brighouse as a name came to refer to a particular part of Richmond, where "Greenhorn" J. Morton also owned property). One of the partners, observant that brick was a valuable building commodity despite the abundance of timber in the region, moved the brick-clay operations to Sumas Mountain, establishing the community of Clayburn, now a neighbourhood of Abbotsford.
Later, with the arrival of the Canadian Pacific Railway, with its terminus at nearby Coal Harbour, the West End became Vancouver's first upscale neighbourhood, home to the richest railroad families. Many of these families lived along Georgia Street, known at that time as "Blue Blood Alley" for all the posh mansions built there.[4] Later mansions (including the Davie mansion) were built in then remoter areas of the West End as the financial district's land values displaced the high-toned residences. This role was ultimately dropped with the increasing vogue for the upscale Shaughnessy neighbourhood, and as middle-class housing of various kinds began to fill out the West End. As the city grew, the West End became a transitory place for new arrivals from elsewhere in Canada, the United Kingdom, and later for immigrants from other countries, establishing a tradition of diversity. Following World War II, a significant German commercial community emerged along Robson Street, giving birth to the nickname Robsonstrasse, a name still occasionally used in marketing despite the loss of its original meaning.

Neighbourhood name: South Cambie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Cambie
Description: South Cambie is a neighbourhood in the city of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, that is generally considered one of the smallest neighbourhoods in the city, both in size and in population. It is wedged between one of the city's largest parks and the upscale neighbourhood of Shaughnessy, and is known for a large cluster of medical facilities.
History: A part of a land grant given to the Canadian Pacific Railway in the 1800s, Cambie Street was named after CPR engineer Henry Cambie, who was in charge of the railway's western division. The first colonial settlers arrived in 1874 when William Mackie, a former gold miner, claimed 65 hectares of land surrounding a former elk pasture that is now Douglas Park, on West 22nd Avenue. He was followed by Jeremiah Rogers, who became one of the first users of mechanized logging equipment in British Columbia, building a road to the top of Little Mountain. By 1910, that portion of the land had become a Chinese vegetable garden, and homes began to appear around it. Much of the land remained undeveloped until the 1940s.

Neighbourhood name: Strathcona
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strathcona,_Vancouver
Description: Strathcona is the oldest residential neighbourhood of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Officially a part of the East Side, it is bordered by Downtown Vancouver's Chinatown neighbourhood and the False Creek inlet (across Main Street) to the west, Downtown Eastside (across Hastings Street) to the north, Grandview-Woodland (across Clark Drive) to the east, and Mount Pleasant to the south of Emily Carr University and the Canadian National Railway and Great Northern Railway (now BNSF Railway) classification yards.
By some definitions, Strathcona's northern border is the roads just south of Burrard Inlet, and much of the Downtown Eastside lies within Strathcona.[7] By other definitions, Strathcona's northern boundary is just south of Hastings Street, and the Downtown Eastside is a separate neighbourhood to the north and northwest of Strathcona.[7] The modern official demarcation puts Strathcona's northern border at Keefer Street.[7]
Strathcona has long been a hub of immigration and culture relative to Vancouver's more recently settled neighbourhoods. Chinese immigrants, Vietnamese immigrants, and various groups of European immigrants have characterized the neighbourhood's culture. Although Strathcona was historically a working-class neighbourhood, recently, more middle-class and affluent groups have come to inhabit the neighbourhood, attracted by its vibrant community. Strathcona is home to many art galleries, family-owned corner stores, and other small businesses.
History: Over 11,800 people live in Strathcona,[1][8][9] which grew during the city's boom years between the city's founding in 1886 and 1920 due in large part to the choice of early Vancouver as a railway terminus. It emerged from the original settlement that grew around Hastings Mill. Originally called the East End, the neighbourhood adopted the name Strathcona in the 1960s. Its residents have always been from many ethnic backgrounds, and while it was historically a working-class neighbourhood, it is currently made up by a diverse range of socio-economic and cultural groups. It is the only neighbourhood where English is not the most commonly spoken language, with 61% of residents reporting Chinese as their mother tongue, followed by English at 24%.[10]
The neighbourhood was earmarked for demolition in the 1950s as part of an urban renewal program. Strathcona would have been transformed into "block upon block of identical apartments buildings and townhouses" for social housing. The redevelopment plans proceeded with the construction of the MacLean Park housing development between Union, Keefer, Gore and Jackson, and Stamp's Place on Campbell between Hastings, Union and Raymur some 15 blocks of the neighbourhood were bulldozed including Hogan's Alley, the only Black community in Vancouver.[11] Development was stopped due to opposition from the community, led by residents such as Bessie Lee, Mary Lee Chan, her husband Walter Chan, and daughter Shirley Chan, who banded together to form the Strathcona Property Owners and Tenants Association (SPOTA).[12] Important municipal figures such as mayor Mike Harcourt and the TEAM and later COPE party emerged from this movement.
In 1971, residents came into conflict with the north–south rail line that had bisected the neighbourhood since 1909. Mothers of children who attended Admiral Seymour Elementary School were concerned that trains often blocked the route that their children took to walk to school. This group, which became known as the Militant Mothers of Raymur, occupied the tracks, leading to the construction of a pedestrian/cyclist overpass at Keefer St.
Just as the neighbourhood organisers were making headway at preserving the neighbourhood, city engineers proposed putting a freeway through the southern part of the neighbourhood which would have connected to a proposed waterfront route. The connectors along Gore and Carrall Streets would have partially destroyed Chinatown and Gastown.
The Mau Dan Gardens Co-operative was established in October 1981, the last of five projects initiated by the Strathcona Area Housing Society (SAHS) to provide housing for the residents of the Strathcona area whose homes were expropriated and demolished in the urban renewal clearance scheme of 1965.
In 1972, after protest by the local community, the city abandoned its plan to build a municipal fire hall on the vacant site and reserved the property known as site "C & D" for family housing. The land, owned by the City of Vancouver, is now leased to the Mau Dan Gardens Co-operative Housing Association.
The founding membership of the Co-operative was predominantly of Chinese ethnicity, but included families of Vietnamese, Cambodian, Japanese and Canadian origin.[13]
In recent years, Strathcona has been subjected to a significant gentrification process, reinforcing the economic disparity of the area. The late 19th and early 20th century architecture in the area is a relative rarity in Vancouver and many houses in Strathcona are designated heritage houses. This housing stock in particular is being renovated, thus raising property values and attracting wealthier home owners to the area.[citation needed] A number of homeowners have restored their houses in the original Victorian or Edwardian styles, with a particular attention to the "true colours" of the period,[5] which in some cases has been supported by grants from the "Restore It!" program of the Vancouver Heritage Foundation.
